Title: MMMMM: A Unified Taxonomy for Investigating the Mechanisms of Multilingual MultiModal Misinformation

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2608.29681v1

Published Time: Tue, 01 Sep 2026 01:36:15 GMT

Number of Pages: 34

Markdown Content:
## : A Unified Taxonomy for Investigating the Mechanisms of Multilingual MultiModal Misinformation 

Nadav Borenstein Greta Warren Desmond Elliott Isabelle Augenstein 

University of Copenhagen 

nb@di.ku.dk grwa@di.ku.dk de@di.ku.dk augenstein@di.ku.dk 

Abstract 

Multimodal misinformation on social media is highly prevalent, potent, and harmful, yet difficult to detect and counter, and still poorly understood compared to its text-only counter-part. Research on the properties and deceptive strategies of multimodal misinformation is hin-dered by a lack of taxonomies grounded in real-world contexts and by the limitations of current multimodal machine learning models, which prevent the automation of annotation and anal-ysis at scale. We address these shortcomings in three steps. First, we collect a large-scale, high-quality dataset of real-world misinformation in-stances from Twitter/ X in seven languages. Sec-ond, we develop a novel, comprehensive taxon-omy of multimodal misinformation grounded in an in-depth qualitative analysis of the data and prior theoretical work. Finally, we opera-tionalise the taxonomy through an automated multi-step annotation pipeline using a Vision-Language Model (VLM), and perform human-validation. Our novel approach leads to pre-viously undocumented insights about how so-cial media users combine images with text to spread misinformation in the wild, e.g., that AI-generated content is particularly prevalent in technology and science, while vaccination misinformation disproportionately utilises im-ages from news outlets to assert credibility. Our method and findings provide guidance for tar-geted approaches for detecting multimodal mis-information, and suggest that mitigation efforts should be developed and applied strategically rather than uniformly. 

1 Introduction 

Online misinformation poses severe real-world harms to individuals, groups and society. These risks are amplified when the misinformation is multimodal: claims accompanied by images and videos 1 can be more convincing (Newman et al., 

> 1While some elements of this study can be applied to videos, the focus of this work is images.

Figure 1: Example of a multimodal misinformation instance found on X, and the labels assigned to it from our taxonomy. Refer to Tab. 10 in §E for a detailed description of the taxonomy and its labels. 

2012; Newman and Zhang, 2020; Hameleers et al., 2020) and emotionally salient (Li and Xie, 2019) than text alone. This concern is compounded by the multimodal nature of today’s social media, as most popular platforms being either exclusively (TikTok, Instagram, YouTube) or predominantly (Twitter/ X2, Facebook, and Reddit) multimodal. Developing a comprehensive taxonomy of how multimodal misinformation manifests on social me-dia is a crucial step toward designing effective mit-igation strategies. In particular, categorising the 

mechanisms (i.e., how a image-text pairing pro-duces a false or misleading impression) through which images are used to propagate false narratives (e.g., taking an image out of context or manipulat-ing its content) can provide actionable guidance on which interventions are likely to be most impactful and cost-effective. Existing work is limited; current taxonomies of multimodal misinformation (see §2 for an overview) are disparate, contain ambiguous categories, and leave many cases unclassified. 3  

> 2We will use the name Xin this work.
> 3For example, approximately 40% of images annotated with the taxonomy defined in Dufour et al. (2024) could not arXiv:2608.29681v1 [cs.CY] 30 Aug 2026

Moreover, the scope of current research is lim-ited by the difficulty of reliably analysing multi-modal misinformation at scale. It is challenging for crowdsourced annotators to apply extensive tax-onomies, while the complex and ambiguous na-ture of multimodal misinformation often requires domain-specific knowledge to accurately evaluate them. Until recently, Vision Language Models (VLMs) lacked the capabilities to reliably annotate such data (Qi et al., 2024; Abdali et al., 2024; Liu et al., 2025; Zhang et al., 2026). To date, this has ne-cessitated reliance on time and resource-intensive expert annotations, limiting the scale of analysis. This study addresses these limitations through a 

novel and comprehensive taxonomy of multimodal misinformation mechanisms , including five addi-tional orthogonal axes: Classification, Image Type, Emotions, Rhetorical Role, and Topic and Message (§4.2). To ensure practical relevance, the taxon-omy’s development was guided both by prior the-oretical work and an in-depth qualitative analysis of a multilingual dataset of real-world misinfor-mation instances collected from X’s Community Notes dataset. As our taxonomy was developed based on a broad set of misinformation (Commu-nity Notes), it can be applied more widely than prior taxonomies based on fact-checking articles, which are necessarily narrower in terms of cate-gories. We then develop and evaluate an annotation pipeline based on a VLM to apply the taxonomy at scale to the Community Notes dataset (§5). We demonstrate the utility of our approach by examining how text and images are combined in real-world contexts to propagate false narratives (§6). We show the generalisability of our taxon-omy and annotation pipeline by applying it to the AMM EBA dataset (Dufour et al., 2024), which con-sists of multimodal misinformation verified by pro-fessional fact-checkers, finding that our approach shows good agreement with expert human annota-tors across both datasets. Our analysis of the annotated data reveals that images that provide a slanted representation of the truth are among the most common types of mul-timodal information, that AI-generated content is a particularly prevalent mechanism in technology and science domains, and that vaccination-related misinformation disproportionately appropriates im-ages from news outlets for credibility. These find-ings show that misinformation mechanisms differ 

> be classified into any of their own pre-defined subcategories.

systematically across domains and narratives, sug-gesting that mitigation efforts should be developed and applied strategically rather than uniformly. 

2 Background 

2.1 Multimodal Misinformation Taxonomies 

Few works explicitly define taxonomies of mul-timodal misinformation mechanisms. McCulloh (2022) propose seven categories, including Denial of image authenticity and Manufactured media ,while Newman and Schwarz (2024) introduce a five-category scheme with labels such as Slanted representation , Repurposed content , and Decora-tive . The most comprehensive effort to date is the taxonomy by Dufour et al. (2024), resulting in the AMM EBA dataset. It covers several orthogonal axes, including image type (e.g., screenshot vs. simple photo), media type (image, video, multi-image), and mechanism. This last axis defines three top-level categories: Content manipulation 

(with sub-categories such as AI-generated content 

and news headline manipulation ), Context manipu-lation (sub-categories: date manipulation , identity manipulation , etc.), and Text-based manipulation .A larger body of work defines taxonomies implic-itly , typically by constructing benchmark datasets. Liu et al. (2025) introduce MM-FakeBench, cov-ering twelve distinct mechanisms such as PS im-ages , scene inconsistency , and semantic inconsis-tency . Nakamura et al. (2020) curate a six-category dataset from Reddit, and Shao et al. (2023) con-struct a benchmark by applying four manipulation types (e.g., face swaps) to benign news articles. Finally, some broader misinformation research offers schemas that, while not exclusively mul-timodal, still transfer well to a multimodal set-ting. Most notably, Wardle and Derakhshan (2017) present a broad taxonomy that spans orthogonal axes, such as the intent of the misinformation source (e.g., intentional vs accidental harm), the recipient’s reaction, and the message itself. Im-portantly, the work also describes 10 misinforma-tion mechanisms directly applicable to multimodal cases. See overview in Tab. 2 in §A. However, existing taxonomies are fragmented, with various levels of scope and granularity. We develop a tax-onomy which unifies prior schemes while introduc-ing novel, empirically grounded categories derived through qualitative analysis of real-world data. 2.2 Datasets of Multimodal Misinformation 

Multimodal misinformation datasets typically ad-dress a specific task, e.g., claim detection (Nielsen and McConville, 2022; Cheema et al., 2022), out-of-context prediction (Luo et al., 2021; Aneja et al., 2023), image manipulation detection (Shao et al., 2023; Wang et al., 2024), and deepfake detection (Wang et al., 2024; Skoularikis et al., 2025) (see Rothermel et al. (2026) for a broader overview). Most datasets, such as AMM EBA, source ex-amples from professional fact-checking organisa-tions (Dufour et al., 2024; Rothermel et al., 2026), whereas others rely on synthetic data generation (Wang et al., 2024). An alternative approach is to collect instances directly from social media (Naka-mura et al., 2022; Xing et al., 2026), which may yield more diverse examples than those selected for professional fact-checking. A notable source of social media-based multimodal misinformation is Community Notes (Twitter, 2021), X’s community-based moderation platform. In this paper, we curate a dataset of misleading posts and images from X

in order to capture a broader range of multimodal misinformation than existing datasets (see §3). 

2.3 VLMs for Multimodal Misinformation 

VLMs have increasingly been applied to multi-modal misinformation tasks, including claim de-tection (Van Der Meer et al., 2025), out-of-context identification (Qi et al., 2024; Shalabi et al., 2024), image manipulation detection (Wang et al., 2024; Liu et al., 2025), and justification generation (Qi et al., 2024). However, their limitations in mul-timodal reasoning and instruction following (Vil-legas et al., 2026) have constrained their utility (Shalabi et al., 2024; Liu et al., 2025; Zhang et al., 2026). These limitations are especially consequen-tial for tasks requiring nuanced reasoning (Ai et al., 2026), such as fine-grained analysis and categorisa-tion of misinformation instances addressed in this study. Nevertheless, the rapid evolution of VLM capabilities has steadily expanded the range and complexity of tasks they can reliably complete, as demonstrated by our findings. 

3 Datasets 

We aimed to curate a diverse, high-quality, and con-temporary dataset of multimodal misinformation samples to guide the development of our taxon-omy by grounding it in real instances of online multimodal misinformation. Beyond supporting taxonomy development, such a dataset also allows us to empirically validate the taxonomy by apply-ing it at scale, and illustrate the kinds of research questions that can now be answered (see §5 and §6 for details). X’s Community Notes is a natural candidate for the following reasons: 

Quality. Community Notes employs strong consensus-driven self-moderation policies (Twit-ter, 2024; Twitter/X, 2024), mitigating the risk of encountering low-quality notes. 

Diversity. Notes (and corresponding posts) span a wide range of topics and languages, and capture a wide variety of misinformation that fact-checking agencies might overlook or deprioritise (Borenstein et al., 2025; Mohammadi et al., 2026; Augenstein et al., 2025). 

Relevance. The dataset is contemporary and dy-namic, with new notes contributed daily. Therefore, the taxonomy and automated annotation pipeline developed in this work can also be applied to anal-yse future issues and trends in misinformation. 

Format. Each instance follows a consistent struc-ture that reduces to a (username, claim, image, note) tuple, greatly simplifying their analysis (see examples in Tab. 1) by both humans and automated tools. We base our dataset on COMMUNITYNOTES (Xing et al., 2026), which contains over 100k 

(post, note) pairs collected from X. We adapt it by discarding pairs whose notes were rated as ‘unhelpful’ by the community and retaining only posts written in English, Spanish, Portuguese, Japanese, French, German, or Hebrew. 4 We use web scraping to identify and retain posts containing images, and download these images. The resulting dataset contains 24,596 samples. To further expand the dataset, we collect additional examples from the official Community Notes release. 5 We remove deleted notes, notes rated as ‘ unhelpful ’ by the com-munity, notes attached to posts that are labeled as ‘not misleading ’, and notes written in languages not specified above. This public dataset, however, does not include the original posts and provides no indication of which ones contain non-textual media. We therefore use Twikit 6 to recover the posts, sam-pling and scraping 25k instances. Finally, we retain only posts that include an image. The final merged       

> 4These languages were selected because of their high prevalence in the dataset.
> 5https://communitynotes.x.com/guide/e n/under-the-hood/download-data
> 6https://github.com/d60/twikit User name
> @NBA_follower @Illuminati @ShallowSeek @QuakePredictor
> Post The Washington Wizards haven’t won a playoff series since 1979! Are you awake yet? DeepSeek Now BANNED on ALL Apple + Google devices over ‘Safety’ Concerns. 70 HOUR WARNING: Major earthquake is likely in Southern California -most likely in Los Angeles or Ventura County ...
> Image
> Note The wizards have made it out of the first round multiple times, including beating the Atlanta hawks in 2017. landofbasket-ball.com/teams/playoff_... This meme does not accurately reflect what occurs when land ice, such as glaciers, icebergs and ice sheets, melt into the ocean ... melting land ice is what contributes to the sea level rise... DeepSeek is not banned on “ALL” devices, as specified in the image shown in the post. Only in regions of Europe... There is no scientific basis for this or any earthquake prediction. Quakes are always possible in places like California, but specific forecasts perform no better than random when tested...

Table 1: Community Notes samples with usernames, posts, images, and notes. Usernames are fake to retain privacy. 

dataset contains 26,979 (username, claim, 7

image, note) tuples, spanning January 2021 to January 2026. Statistics are reported in Tab. 6 and Fig. 8 in §B.2, with representative examples in Tab. 1. To assess how well our taxonomy and pipeline generalise beyond Community Notes, we also ap-ply them to a sample from the AMM EBA dataset (Dufour et al., 2024), which comprises multimodal fact-checks collected from a large set of profes-sional fact-checking agencies. Statistics are pro-vided in Tab. 7 (§B.2), and collection details in §D.1. Crucially, we only sampled instances in which the image plays an active role in the mis-information (AMM EBA includes this annotation). 

4 Taxonomy Creation 

4.1 Development Process 

Tab. 2 in §A summarises previous attempts at defin-ing taxonomies for multimodal mechanisms of mis-information. These taxonomies, however, are dis-parate and poorly aligned: Identical mechanisms are often assigned different category names (e.g., 

Deepfake vs. AI-generated , or Repurposed vs. Out-of-context ). Similar mechanisms can also be de-fined in subtle yet important ways, despite their 

> 7Generally, the textual claim is the post’s text. However, in some cases the claim is contained in the image. See §4.

superficial similarity (e.g., Manufactured in Mc-Culloh (2022), which can also be applied to face swaps, vs. Fabricated in Brennen et al. (2020), which cannot). Finally, the taxonomies differ in coverage, including or omitting different categories. Fourth, their structure differs – some taxonomies are hierarchical, whereas others are flat. We unified these taxonomies in three stages. First, we aligned exact matches: categories (or sub-categories) that share an identical mechanism, regardless of their naming. Second, we consoli-dated near-matches, i.e., categories with similar definitions. We ensured that each resulting (sub-)category is sufficiently distinguishable to prevent annotators from encountering ambiguous decision boundaries. Third, we organised the remaining categories into a hierarchical structure. The unification process was not purely con-ceptual. We developed the taxonomy iteratively through dataset annotation, using empirical evi-dence to guide definitions of the taxonomy cate-gories: Some definitions proved too vague to an-notate reliably and required refining. Consider the 

Slanted category (Newman and Schwarz, 2024), defined as “real photos that provide a biased rep-resentation of claims made in accompanying text.” It is unclear, for example, whether the sample pre-sented in column 2 of Tab. 1 is considered Slanted 

or not. Other categories, such as Mirrored (Mc-Figure 2: The six axes of our multimodal misinformation taxonomy. Definitions are given in Tab. 10 in §E. 

Culloh, 2022), occur so rarely that we decide to exclude them. Some category pairs, though theoret-ically distinct, were indistinguishable in practice, prompting us to refine or merge them. This iterative process also surfaced gaps in the merged taxonomy – instances that did not neatly fit into any existing category, or that demonstrated mechanism types important enough to be included, prompting us to add several novel categories. We describe three illustrative examples: The first is ex-emplified by column 4 of Tab. 1. This post claims that a major earthquake is expected in California, supported by a visual. This claim is patently false, as earthquake prediction at this resolution is sci-entifically impossible, and the visual is therefore misleading. However, the mechanism by which it misleads is hard to pin down using the exist-ing taxonomy. The map could be fabricated or AI-generated, taken out of context, or perhaps gen-erated using some real, pseudo-scientific methods. We therefore added a sub-category under Slanted ,named scientific errors or conspiracies , to cover such instances. Second, another common pattern that lacks a dedicated category in prior taxonomies is when the textual claim exaggerates the severity, frequency, or consequences of what the image ac-tually shows (e.g., column 3 of Tab. 1). To capture such cases, we added the sub-category exaggera-tion under Slanted . Column 1 of Tab. 1 shows the third example, involving false textual claims em-bedded in the image itself, and the post text merely repeats or amplifies them. No existing category covers this setting, so we introduced the top-level category Textual claim .

4.2 Taxonomy Axes 

Inspired by work such as Dufour et al. (2024) and Wardle and Derakhshan (2017), we enrich the tax-onomy with six orthogonal axes, enabling the study of phenomena beyond simple frequency analysis of mechanism types. We include: 

Classification. Distinguishes misinformation from related but distinct content types, namely ads ,

scams , clickbait , and stolen content . We adopt this axis from Volkova et al. (2019), adapting it to labels already present in Community Notes. 

Image Type. Classifies the image’s visual content into categories such as social media screenshot ,

document , and collage . We adopt this axis from (Dufour et al., 2024), greatly expanding the number of labels and allowing multilabel classification. 

Emotion. Describes the emotions the post author attempts to evoke through the inclusion of the im-age. As an image can evoke several emotions si-multaneously, this axis is multilabel. We add this axis following Weikmann and Lecheler (2022) and the broader literature on the significance of the emotional element in misinformation and persua-siveness (Hosseini and Staab, 2023; Sharma et al., 2023; Zollo et al., 2015). 

Rhetorical role. The functional relationship be-tween text-image pairs. We adopt the top-level cat-egories of Marsh and White (2003)’s extensive tax-onomy, omitting the finer-grained sub-categories. 

Topic and Message. Captures what the misinfor-mation is about, enabling fine-grained analysis of narrative-mechanism interactions. Topic is a high-level multilabel category, whereas Message is a short free-text description of the specific narrative. While natural language labels are uncommon in taxonomies, this formulation is highly beneficial: misinformation narratives are rapidly evolving and cannot be captured by a fixed set of labels. 

Multimodal Mechanism. As described in §4.1. We deliberately omit several axes used in prior work. Some, such as Intent (Volkova et al., 2019) cannot be reliably annotated from content alone, while others fall outside the scope of this study (e.g., Recipient (Wardle and Derakhshan, 2017)). 

4.3 Final Taxonomy Final Taxonomy. The resulting taxonomy with its six axes and 25 mechanisms is visualised in Fig. 2. Detailed label definitions are given in Tab. 10 in §E. See Fig. 1 for an application example. 

4.4 Human Evaluation 

Having defined the final taxonomy, we evaluate how well it applies to the datasets introduced in §3. We consider two properties: 1) ambiguity ,the inter-annotator agreement between annotators tasked with applying the taxonomy, and 2) cov-erage , the rate at which dataset instances are as-signed meaningful labels (rather than the generic label Other mechanism ). Specifically, two expert annotators (authors of this study) labeled 100 sam-ples from the Community Notes dataset using the full taxonomy (see Fig. 19 in §D for the annotation interface we used). Annotator A labeled only one instance as Other mechanism and annotator B only three, confirm-ing high coverage. Tab. 3 (top) in §B.1 reports inter-annotator agreement. Notably, agreement is high on Image type (Mean Jaccard score of 0.6) and Topic (Mean Jaccard score of 0.7), multilabel classification tasks with 20 and 13 labels, respec-tively. The subjective Emotion axis scores lower, and Rhetorical role lower still, perhaps reflect-ing the complexity or ambiguity of Marsh and White (2003)’s taxonomy. Mechanism and Sub-mechanism reach agreement rates of 65.2% and 56.8% respectively. Given the fine-grained and often ambiguous nature of multimodal misinforma-tion, these results indicate that the taxonomy can be applied consistently in practice while still capturing meaningful distinctions between mechanisms. 

5 VLM Annotations 

5.1 Modelling 

To analyse multimodal misinformation on contem-porary and emerging issues, we automate this pro-cess using VLMs to apply our taxonomy to large datasets quickly and at low cost. We opted for this over relying on experts or crowd annotators as experts are slow and resource-intensive, which is especially problematic for domains where quali-fied annotators are difficult to find, emerging events where speed is of the essence, and underrepresented languages and regions. Crowd annotation is chal-lenging as labeling instances often requires fluency in a specific language, familiarity with political and cultural contexts, and domain-specific knowledge in topics such as economics or health. Moreover, several taxonomy categories require careful deliber-ation, difficult to sustain in a crowdsourcing setting. We selected Qwen3.5 27B (Qwen Team, 2026) for this task, 8 based on its strong perfor-mance for its size on preliminary experiments, en-abling efficient deployment at scale. Moreover, the model supports over 200 languages, ensuring it can effectively handle misinformation from different countries. Lastly, the VLM was released well after our dataset’s cutoff date, its training data plausibly covers contemporary topics and events necessary for understanding the posts and notes. 9

5.2 Annotation Pipeline 

We model the annotation process as a multi-stage pipeline, where each step addresses a specific axis of the taxonomy, as detailed below (see Fig. 3 for an overview). 

1. Image type. We predict the type(s) of the image, taking only the image as input. Listing 1 in §C details the prompt used. 10 

2. Emotion. We classify the emotion(s) the post au-thor is attempting to evoke using the image. The in-put a is (username, claim, image) triplet. The community note is deliberately excluded as the   

> 8The model is available at https://huggingface. co/Qwen/Qwen3.5-27B-FP8 .
> 9Comparing this setup to a retrieval-augmented (RAG) approach (Lewis et al., 2020) with internet access is a natural extension, which we leave for future work.
> 10 As the two datasets differ in format, we use dataset-specific prompt variants for Community Notes and AMM EBA.The latter are provided in our GitHub: https://github .com/nadavborenstein/MultimodalTaxonomy .Figure 3: The annotation pipeline.

emotions should be inferred from the post itself. See listing 2 for the prompt. 

3. Classification. We determine whether the post constitutes misinformation or falls into another category (advertisement, scam, or stolen content), using (username, claim, image, note) 

as input. Only instances of misinformation proceed to the next steps. See listing 3 for the prompt. 

4. Topic and message. We extract the topic(s) and the main message of the post. The prompt (listing 4) also extracts abstracted versions of the message, which we further analyse in §6. 

5. Rhetorical role. We classify the rhetorical role of the image relative to the textual claim. Fol-lowing Marsh and White (2003), this is modelled as a multi-label classification task. The input is 

(username, claim, image, note) and the message extracted in step 4. See listing 5. 

6. Mechanism. Finally, we identify the multi-modal misinformation mechanism category and, where applicable, its sub-category. This stage is modelled as a multi-turn conversation. First, the VLM determines whether the image actively par-ticipates in the misleading mechanism. Instances in which the image plays no deceptive role are as-signed the ‘ Decorative ’ mechanism. In the second turn, the VLM predicts the top-level mechanism for all remaining instances. Finally, in the third turn, the VLM predicts a sub-mechanism for in-stances that were assigned the mechanism ‘ Mis-match ’, ‘ Slanted ’, ‘ Fake image ’, ‘ Manipulated im-age ’, or ‘ Unreliable source ’. Prompts are provided in listing 6, 7, and 8. To assess prediction stability, we ran the annota-tion pipeline three times in total, each run taking approximately 24 hours on a single L40S GPU, us-ing the default model and sampling parameters sug-gested by Qwen’s creators for non-thinking mode. 

5.3 Evaluation 

We compare VLM predictions against human anno-tations, running the pipeline described in §5.2 three times with different random seeds. Tab. 3 in §B.1 (middle) reports the mean inter-run agreement on Community Notes. The pattern matches the human IAA from §4.4: the more subjective, ambiguous axes yield lower agreement, while others are gen-erally high. One exception is the Sub-mechanism 

axis, which achieves higher agreement than the 

Mechanism axis, reversing the human–human trend. Tab. 3 (bottom) reports VLM–human agreement, averaged over all (VLM run, human annotator) pairs, and shows the same pattern. Notably, VLM– human agreement is comparable to (albeit lower than) human–human agreement, suggesting that the model applies the taxonomy with a reliability approaching that of our expert annotators. We further assess the model’s predictions, focus-ing on the Mechanism axis. We select one pipeline run at random and use stratified sampling to draw up to 20 English instances per predicted label, for a total of 630 samples. We then replace half of pre-dicted labels with randomly drawn labels, which serve as distractors. Each data instance and label (either the model’s prediction or a distractor) was annotated by two expert annotators (authors), who judged whether the label was correct. Inter-annotator agreement is good: Cohen’s κ of 0.67 with 82.3% raw agreement across all 630 sam-ples. Expectedly, the agreement on non-distractor samples is lower – 0.44 with 80.3%, as distrac-tor labels are easier to reject. The two annota-tors then resolved disagreements through discus-sion, after which we computed model accuracy on the non-distractor samples. 79.3% of the predic-tions are judged correct, though accuracy varies considerably across labels. For example, the sub-mechanisms Manipulated image – removal and Un-reliable source – satire exceeded 90%, whereas the sub-mechanisms Slanted – misrepresentation of rel-evance and Fake image – staged fall below 60%, indicating a clear avenue for future improvement. Full results are in Tab. 4 in §B.1. Next, we evaluate how well our taxonomy and Figure 4: Frequency of the top-level mechanisms across the two datasets. 

pipeline apply to a similar (but narrower) dataset comprised of multimodal misinformation verified by fact-checkers (AMM EBA). As AMM EBA al-ready includes human annotations, we compare the VLM to these existing annotations, where the cate-gories align with our taxonomy categories. Tab. 5 (§B.1) reports agreement on the seven aligned cat-egories. F1 scores range from 0.61 to 0.83, with one exception – Time mismatch , at 0.26. This gap may be an artefact of our prompt design rather than a model failure: to improve consistency, we in-struct the VLM to select Place mismatch whenever both time and place mismatches apply (listing 8). AMM EBA instead just selects both labels, which may account for the discrepancy. We then apply our entire taxonomy to AMM EBA, enabling us to observe commonalities and differences in multi-modal misinformation identified by fact-checkers and Community Notes. 

6 Analysis 

6.1 General Results What is the distribution of deceptive mecha-nisms in Community Notes? We first examine the distribution of mechanism categories predicted by the VLM on Community Notes (Fig. 4). Slanted is the most common category, with over 7,000 sam-ples, followed by Decorative and Mismatch . Inter-estingly, Fake image occurs as frequently as Ma-nipulated image , whereas Unreliable source , Other mechanism , and Deny authenticity are rare, with less than 800 samples combined. Fig. 6 provides a finer-grained view of sub-mechanisms. Notably, AI-generated and forged 

images (e.g., fake documents) occur at comparable rates, and both exceed any form of Image manipu-lation with the exception of textual manipulation .

> Figure 5: Co-occurrences of mechanisms vs topics on the Community Notes dataset. Values near zero indicate independence, positive values over-representation, and negative values under-representation.

Within Context mismatch , identity mismatch and 

event mismatch are frequent, while other mismatch types are less common. This analysis offers con-crete guidance for where mitigation efforts may yield the largest practical impact. The multilingual nature of the Community Notes dataset allows us to compare misinformation trends across languages. Two patterns are particularly notable (Fig. 7). First, the Decorative mecha-nism is overrepresented in Portuguese. Fig. 12 (§B.3) provides a preliminary explanation for this: Portuguese-language misinformation tends to con-centrate on Sports , Celebrities , and Entertainment ,which disproportionally use the Decorative mech-anism (Fig. 5). Second, Japanese-language misin-formation disproportionately utilises the Slanted 

mechanism. The sub-category heatmap (Fig. 13 in §B.3) attributes this to the scientific errors and conspiracies mechanism. Manual inspection of samples reveals that a large portion of these posts promote pseudoscientific claims about earthquake prediction, a topic that is particularly relevant in Japan, where earthquakes are frequent. 

How does the mechanism distribution differ be-tween Community Notes and AMM EBA? The two distributions differ substantially (Figures 4 and 6). Mismatch is the dominant mechanism in AMM EBA, largely driven by the prevalence of the 

Event and Identity subcategories. In contrast, Dec-orative is considerably less common in AMM EBA,reflecting our sampling strategy, which includes only instances where the image played an active role in the misinformation. Likewise, AI-generated 

images are rarer than in Community Notes, likely due to AMM EBA’s earlier collection period pre-dating the recent surge in AI image generation. Figure 6: Frequency of the sub-mechanisms across the two datasets. 

> Figure 7: Co-occurrences of mechanisms vs language on the Community Notes dataset.

How do deceptive mechanisms vary across top-ics? Our taxonomy includes five additional axes beyond multimodal mechanisms. Fig. 5 visu-alises topic–mechanism interactions in Community Notes. For each category pair, we apply Fisher’s ex-act test with Benjamini–Hochberg FDR correction and omit cells with p ≥ 0.05 . Mismatch (particu-larly Place , Time , and Event mismatch , as seen in Fig. 10 in §B) co-occurs strongly with Conflict , con-sistent with the widespread use of out-of-context imagery from conflict preparations and aftermaths (Tab. 8). Textual claim is over-represented in Law ,

Economics , Health , and Science , where documents often serve as evidence. Topic–mechanism interactions in AMM EBA

(Fig. 9 in §B.3) partially overlap with those ob-served in Community Notes. For example, the over-representation of Mismatch–Conflict and the under-representation of Celebrities and Textual claim per-sist across both datasets. A main source of diver-gence is the Fake image category, with AMM EBA

reporting low correlations with almost all topics. 

6.2 Case Studies 

While valuable, Topic–Mechanism co-occurrence analyses are too coarse-grained to capture interac-tions related to specific misinformation narratives. The natural-language Message annotation, how-ever, enables us to identify misinformation linked to particular narratives of interest, enabling fine-grained analysis of Narrative-Mechanism interac-tion. We present two case studies demonstrating this approach. See §D.2 for the procedure and §B.3 for supporting figures and tables. 

Case study 1: Athletic rivalry. As shown in Fig. 14, when the image plays a an active role in the misinformation, narratives about athletic ri-valries disproportionately involve text-based mech-anisms ( Manipulated image: textual and Textual claim in image ). Inspection of representative ex-amples reveals that this pattern is driven by images containing fake statistics or fabricated performance metrics. 

Case study 2: Vaccination. Unsurprisingly, misin-formation related to vaccination risks is dominated by the scientific errors and conspiracies mecha-nism and text-based claims (Fig. 15). The taxon-omy, however, enables other forms of investigation. Fig. 16 reveals that News screenshot image types are particularly over-represented. This suggests that appropriating journalistic authority is a com-mon deception strategy within this narrative. See examples in Tab. 9. 

Case study 3: Anti-immigration narratives. We examine anti-immigration misinformation, which includes narratives related to claims that immi-grants are violent, a drain on financial resources, and Great-replacement conspiracies. 11 Fig. 17 reports the distribution of mechanisms, showing an over-representation of Textual claim in image ,

Slanted representation , and Mismatch: time/place .We also examine emotions associated with these narratives; Fig. 18 shows a clear reliance on nega-tive emotions such as Anger and Fear .

7 Conclusion 

We introduce a unified taxonomy of multimodal misinformation mechanisms, consolidating prior frameworks and extending them with novel cat-egories grounded in real-world data. We oper-ationalise the taxonomy through an automated VLM annotation pipeline, and validate it across two datasets: Community Notes and AMM EBA.Applying our taxonomy at scale reveals dis-cernible variation in multimodal deceptive mecha-nisms, such as that AI-generated images are espe-cially prevalent in technology and science, while vaccination-related misinformation disproportion-ately asserts credibility using screenshots from news organisations. Together, our findings provide a foundation for more targeted analysis, detection, and mitigation of multimodal misinformation. 

Limitations 

We identify the following limitations of our work. First, as noted in §4.1, several taxonomy axes proposed in prior work were excluded from our unified taxonomy. This was done because they were either too ambiguous to annotate reliably, re-quired access to external sources, or fell outside the scope of this work. Incorporating them is an open opportunity. Second, although sizable, our Community Notes dataset is not large enough to support robust anal-ysis of every narrative, and many narratives are represented by too few samples. In the same vein, the AMM EBA dataset we use is only a subsample. 

> 11 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Great_ Replacement_conspiracy_theory

Expanding both, e.g., by improving the data col-lection scheme described in §D.1, would support fine-grained analysis of further narratives. Third, our model selection process was lim-ited by computational constraints and our de-sire to avoid dependence on proprietary systems. 

Qwen3.5 27B , while highly capable, does not match the performance of state-of-the-art VLMs. A larger model, or one fine-tuned for this task, would likely yield better predictions. Fourth, we process multilinguality naively, re-lying on Qwen3.5 ’s built-in multilingual support rather than developing methods to handle it explic-itly. Approaches such as translation pipelines or language-specific VLMs may perform better. Fifth, our taxonomy treats the Multimodal Mech-anism axis as a single label classification. In prac-tice, some misinformation instances exhibit more than one mechanism type, e.g., be misattributed with respect to both time and place. Extending the taxonomy to allow multi-label assignment is a natural direction for future work. Finally, manual inspection of model predictions revealed that some instances in both Community Notes and AMM EBA are of low quality. A better filtering mechanism, independent of the datasets’ own quality-related annotations, would help ensure more robust results. 

Acknowledgements 

This research was co-funded by the Euro-pean Union (ERC, ExplainYourself, 101077481), by the European Union’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation program under grant agreement No. 101135671 (TrustLLM), and by the Pioneer Centre for AI, DNRF grant number P1. 

References       

> Sara Abdali, Sina Shaham, and Bhaskar Krishna-machari. 2024. Multi-modal misinformation de-tection: Approaches, challenges and opportunities.
> ACM Comput. Surv. , 57(3). Wei Ai, Yilong Tan, Yuntao Shou, Tao Meng, Haowen Chen, Zhixiong He, and Keqin Li. 2026. The paradigm shift: A comprehensive survey on large vision language models for multimodal fake news detection. Computer Science Review , 60:100893. Mubashara Akhtar, Michael Schlichtkrull, Zhijiang Guo, Oana Cocarascu, Elena Simperl, and Andreas Vla-chos. 2023. Multimodal automated fact-checking: A survey. In Findings of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics: EMNLP 2023 , pages 5430–5448,

Singapore. Association for Computational Linguis-tics. Shivangi Aneja, Chris Bregler, and Matthias Nießner. 2023. Cosmos: catching out-of-context image mis-use with self-supervised learning. In Proceedings of the Thirty-Seventh AAAI Conference on Artifi-cial Intelligence and Thirty-Fifth Conference on In-novative Applications of Artificial Intelligence and Thirteenth Symposium on Educational Advances in Artificial Intelligence , AAAI’23/IAAI’23/EAAI’23. AAAI Press. Isabelle Augenstein, Michiel Bakker, Tanmoy Chakraborty, David Corney, Emilio Ferrara, Iryna Gurevych, Scott Hale, Eduard Hovy, Heng Ji, Irene Larraz, Filippo Menczer, Preslav Nakov, Paolo Papotti, Dhruv Sahnan, Greta Warren, and Giovanni Zagni. 2025. Community moderation and the new epistemology of fact checking on social media. Adrien Barbaresi. 2021. Trafilatura: A web scraping library and command-line tool for text discovery and extraction. In Proceedings of the 59th Annual Meet-ing of the Association for Computational Linguistics and the 11th International Joint Conference on Nat-ural Language Processing: System Demonstrations ,pages 122–131, Online. Association for Computa-tional Linguistics. Nadav Borenstein, Greta Warren, Desmond Elliott, and Isabelle Augenstein. 2025. Can community notes replace professional fact-checkers? In Proceed-ings of the 63rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 2: Short Pa-pers) , pages 535–552, Vienna, Austria. Association for Computational Linguistics. J Scott Brennen, Felix M Simon, Philip N Howard, and Rasmus Kleis Nielsen. 2020. Types, sources, and claims of covid-19 misinformation. Reuters Institute for the Study of Journalism .Gullal Singh Cheema, Sherzod Hakimov, Abdul Sittar, Eric Müller-Budack, Christian Otto, and Ralph Ew-erth. 2022. MM-claims: A dataset for multimodal claim detection in social media. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: NAACL 2022 , pages 962–979, Seattle, United States. Associ-ation for Computational Linguistics. Nicholas Dufour, Arkanath Pathak, Pouya Saman-gouei, Nikki Hariri, Shashi Deshetti, Andrew Dud-field, Christopher Guess, Pablo Hern’andez Escayola, Bobby Tran, Mevan Babakar, and Christoph Bregler. 2024. Ammeba: A large-scale survey and dataset of media-based misinformation in-the-wild. ArXiv ,abs/2405.11697. Michael Hameleers, Thomas E. Powell, Toni G.L.A. Van Der Meer, and Lieke Bos and. 2020. A picture paints a thousand lies? the effects and mechanisms of multimodal disinformation and rebuttals dissem-inated via social media. Political Communication ,37(2):281–301. Akram Sadat Hosseini and Steffen Staab. 2023. Emo-tional framing in the spreading of false and true claims. In Proceedings of the 15th ACM Web Sci-ence Conference 2023 , WebSci ’23, page 96–106, New York, NY, USA. Association for Computing Machinery. Patrick Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra Piktus, Fabio Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin, Naman Goyal, Hein-rich Küttler, Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, Tim Rock-täschel, Sebastian Riedel, and Douwe Kiela. 2020. Retrieval-augmented generation for knowledge-intensive nlp tasks. In Proceedings of the 34th Inter-national Conference on Neural Information Process-ing Systems , NIPS ’20, Red Hook, NY, USA. Curran Associates Inc. Yiyi Li and Ying Xie. 2019. Is a picture worth a thou-sand words? an empirical study of image content and social media engagement. Journal of Marketing Research , 57:1 – 19. Xuannan Liu, Zekun Li, Peipei Li, Huaibo Huang, Shuhan Xia, Xing Cui, Linzhi Huang, Weihong Deng, and Zhaofeng He. 2025. Mmfakebench: A mixed-source multimodal misinformation detection bench-mark for lvlms. Grace Luo, Trevor Darrell, and Anna Rohrbach. 2021. NewsCLIPpings: Automatic Generation of Out-of-Context Multimodal Media. In Proceedings of the 2021 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing , pages 6801–6817, Online and Punta Cana, Dominican Republic. Association for Computational Linguistics. Emily Marsh and Marilyn White. 2003. A taxonomy of relationships between images and text. Journal of Documentation , 59:647–672. Douglas McCulloh. 2022. Fauxtography. lying with photographs: An analytical framework. Saeedeh Mohammadi, Narges Chinichian, Hannah Doyal, Kristina Skutilova, Hao Cui, Michele d’Errico, Siobhan Grayson, and Taha Yasseri. 2026. From birdwatch to community notes, from twitter to x: four years of community-based content modera-tion. Kai Nakamura, Sharon Levy, Yi-Lin Tuan, Wenhu Chen, and William Yang Wang. 2022. HybriDialogue: An information-seeking dialogue dataset grounded on tabular and textual data. In Findings of the Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2022 , pages 481–492, Dublin, Ireland. Association for Computa-tional Linguistics. Kai Nakamura, Sharon Levy, and William Yang Wang. 2020. Fakeddit: A new multimodal benchmark dataset for fine-grained fake news detection. In Pro-ceedings of the 12th Language Resources and Evalua-tion Conference , pages 6149–6157, Marseille, France. European Language Resources Association. Eryn J. Newman, Maryanne Garry, Daniel M. Bernstein, Justin Kantner, and Stephen Lindsay. 2012. Non-probative photographs (or words) inflate truthiness. 

Psychonomic Bulletin & Review , 19:969–974. Eryn J. Newman and Norbert Schwarz. 2024. Misin-formed by images: How images influence percep-tions of truth and what can be done about it. Current Opinion in Psychology , 56:101778. Eryn J. Newman and Lynn Zhang. 2020. Truthiness : How non-probative photos shape belief. In The psychology of fake news: Accepting, sharing, and correcting misinformation. 

Dan S. Nielsen and Ryan McConville. 2022. Mumin: A large-scale multilingual multimodal fact-checked misinformation social network dataset. In Proceed-ings of the 45th International ACM SIGIR Confer-ence on Research and Development in Information Retrieval , SIGIR ’22, page 3141–3153, New York, NY, USA. Association for Computing Machinery. Peng Qi, Zehong Yan, Wynne Hsu, and Mong Li Lee. 2024. Sniffer: Multimodal large language model for explainable out-of-context misinformation detection. Qwen Team. 2026. Qwen3.5: Towards native multi-modal agents. Nils Reimers and Iryna Gurevych. 2020. Making monolingual sentence embeddings multilingual us-ing knowledge distillation. In Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing . Association for Computational Linguistics. Mark Rothermel, Marcus Kornmann, Marcus Rohrbach, and Anna Rohrbach. 2026. Veritas: The first dy-namic benchmark for multimodal automated fact-checking. Fatma Shalabi, Hichem Felouat, Huy H. Nguyen, and Isao Echizen. 2024. Leveraging chat-based large vi-sion language models for multimodal out-of-context detection. In Advanced Information Networking and Applications , pages 86–98, Cham. Springer Nature Switzerland. Rui Shao, Tianxing Wu, and Ziwei Liu. 2023. Detecting and grounding multi-modal media manipulation. Prerika R Sharma, Kimberley A Wade, and Laura Job-son. 2023. A systematic review of the relationship between emotion and susceptibility to misinforma-tion. Memory , 31(1):1–21. Anastasios Skoularikis, Stefanos-Iordanis Papadopou-los, Symeon Papadopoulos, and Panagiotis C. Petran-tonakis. 2025. ’humor, art, or misinformation?’: A multimodal dataset for intent-aware synthetic image detection. In Proceedings of the 2nd International Workshop on Diffusion of Harmful Content on Online Web , DHOW ’25, page 95–104, New York, NY, USA. Association for Computing Machinery. Twitter. 2021. Introducing Birdwatch, a Community-Based Approach to Misinformation. Twitter. 2024. Rating and Writing Impact. Twitter/X. 2024. Note Ranking Algorithm. Michiel Van Der Meer, Pavel Korshunov, Sébastien Mar-cel, and Lonneke Van Der Plas. 2025. HintsOfTruth: A multimodal checkworthiness detection dataset with real and synthetic claims. In Proceedings of the 63rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , pages 31274– 31291, Vienna, Austria. Association for Computa-tional Linguistics. Danae Sánchez Villegas, Samuel Lewis-Lim, Nikolaos Aletras, and Desmond Elliott. 2026. Reasoning dy-namics and the limits of monitoring modality reliance in vision-language models. Svitlana Volkova, Ellyn Ayton, Dustin L. Arendt, Zhuanyi Huang, and Brian Hutchinson. 2019. Ex-plaining multimodal deceptive news prediction mod-els. Proceedings of the International AAAI Confer-ence on Web and Social Media , 13(01):659–662. Shengkang Wang, Hongzhan Lin, Ziyang Luo, Zhen Ye, Guang Chen, and Jing Ma. 2024. Mfc-bench: Benchmarking multimodal fact-checking with large vision-language models. ArXiv , abs/2406.11288. Claire Wardle and Hossein Derakhshan. 2017. INFOR-MATION DISORDER : Toward an interdisciplinary framework for research and policy making Informa-tion Disorder Toward an interdisciplinary framework for research and policymaking . Council of Europe. Teresa Weikmann and Sophie Lecheler. 2022. Visual disinformation in a digital age: A literature synthesis and research agenda. New Media & Society , 25:3696 – 3713. Rui Xing, Preslav Nakov, Timothy Baldwin, and Jey Han Lau. 2026. COMMUNITYNOTES: A dataset for exploring the helpfulness of fact-checking explanations. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EACL 2026 , pages 1390– 1411, Rabat, Morocco. Association for Computa-tional Linguistics. Chi Zhang, Wenxuan Ding, Jiale Liu, Mingrui Wu, Qingyun Wu, and Ray Mooney. 2026. Do images speak louder than words? investigating the effect of textual misinformation in VLMs. In Proceedings of the 19th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , pages 6872–6895, Rabat, Morocco. Association for Computational Linguistics. Fabiana Zollo, Petra Kralj Novak, Michela Del Vi-cario, Alessandro Bessi, Igor Mozetiˇ c, Antonio Scala, Guido Caldarelli, and Walter Quattrociocchi. 2015. Emotional dynamics in the age of misinformation. 

PloS one , 10(9):e0138740. A Overview of Existing Taxonomies 

Tab. 2 : An overview of existing attempts and defin-ing a taxonomy of mechanisms of multimodal mis-information. Our taxonomy is given in the bottom row. 

B Additional Results 

B.1 Evaluation Tab. 3 : Agreement across all settings, by annota-tion step. ≥1 Match is at least one match. Mean |A| and Mean |B| are the mean number of labels per annotator. The “Skip” columns correspond to the annotation steps where there is a stop condi-tion which one or more of the annotators encounter. 

Classification , Mechanism , and Sub-mechanism are modelled as a single label prediction task, so the mean Jaccard score and ≥1 Match are not informa-tive metrics, thus removed from the table. 

Tab. 4 : Model prediction accuracy by mechanism and sub-mechanism label. 

Tab. 5 : Agreement with AMM EBA’s existing hu-man annotation on aligned categories. 

B.2 Dataset Statistics Tab. 6 : Statistics for the Community Notes dataset. 

Fig. 8 : Distribution of dataset samples over time for the Community Notes dataset. 

Tab. 7 : Dataset statistics for AMM EBA.

B.3 Analysis Fig. 9 : Co-occurrences of mechanisms vs topics on AMM EBA. Only cells with p < 0.05 are shown. Refer to §6 for details. 

Fig. 10 : Co-occurrences of sub-mechanisms vs topics on Community Notes. 

Fig. 11 : Co-occurrences of sub-mechanisms vs topics on AMM EBA.

Fig. 12 Distribution of topics across languages on Community Notes. 

Fig. 13 Co-occurrences of sub-mechanisms vs lan-guage on the Community Notes dataset. 

Tab. 8 : Examples of misinformation instances from the Community Notes dataset classified with the topic Conflict and the sub-mechanisms Place mismatch , Time mismatch , or Event mismatch .

Fig. 14 : Sub-mechanism distribution on Commu-nity Notes for misinformation instances related to athletic rivalry. We show divergence from the over-all distribution across all misinformation instances. 

Fig. 15 : Sub-mechanism distribution on Commu-nity Notes for misinformation instances related to vaccination. We show divergence from the overall distribution across all misinformation instances. 

Fig. 16 : Image type distribution on Community Notes for misinformation instances related to vac-cination. We show divergence from the overall distribution across all misinformation instances. 

Tab. 9 : Examples of misinformation instances from the Community Notes dataset related to vac-cination, with image type News Screenshot .

Fig. 17 : Sub-mechanism distribution on Commu-nity Notes for misinformation instances related to immigration. 

Fig. 18 : Emotion distribution on Community Notes for misinformation instances related to immigra-tion. 

C Prompts 

Listing 1 : The prompt used to classify the type of the image. 

Listing 2 : The prompt used to classify the emo-tions the user is trying to evoke by including the image in their post. 

Listing 3 : The prompt used to determine whether the post is considered misinformation. 

Listing 4 : The prompt used to extract the topic and message of a post. The prompt also extracts ab-stracted versions of the message, which are useful for high-level analysis (§6). 

Listing 5 : The prompt used to classify the rhetori-cal role employed by the user, following the taxon-omy defined by Marsh and White (2003). 

Listing 6 : The prompt used for the multimodal misinformation mechanism, stage 1. Here, we de-termine whether the image participates in the mis-leading. 

Listing 7 : The prompt used for the multimodal misinformation mechanism, stage 2. This prompt predicts the top-level mechanism. 

Listing 8 : The prompt used for the multimodal misinformation mechanism, stage 3. This prompt predicts the sub-mechanism. 

D Reproducibility 

D.1 AMM EBA Collection 

We construct our AMM EBA from the original files released in h t t p s : / / w w w . k a g g l e .com/datasets/googleai/in- the - w i l d- m i s i n f o r m a t i o n- m e d ia , us-ing stage_2.csv , image_metadata.csv ,and fact_checks.csv , which we join on Paper Axes # Mechanisms Mechanism Categories (sub-categories) 

Marsh and White (2003) Rhetorical Role N/A N/A Wardle and Derakhshan (2017) Source, Recepient, Message, Intent, MM Mechanism 10 Imposter (None, Brand, Individual), Content (satire/parody, false connection, misleading content, false context, imposter content, manipulated content, fabricated content) McCulloh (2022) MM Mechanism 7 manipulated, manufactured, recontextualised, timeshifted, extracted, mir-rored, denied Volkova et al. (2019) Intent, Classification, Message N/A N/A Nakamura et al. (2020) MM Mechanism 6 True, Satire/Parody, Misleading Content, Imposter Content, False Connection, Manipulated Content Hameleers et al. (2020) MM Mechanism 4 Decontextualisation , Reframing, Visual doctoring, Multimodal doctoring Brennen et al. (2020) Metadata, Source, MM Mechanism 7 Satire/parody, False connections, Misleading content, False context, Imposter content, Fabricated content, Manipulated content Weikmann and Lecheler (2022) Message, Source, Emotions, MM mech-anism 8 Low sophistication (elimination, Cropping, decontextualisation, shallow fakes), High sophistication (PS, misleading data visualisation, deepfakes) Shao et al. (2023) MM Mechanism 4 Face Swap, Face Attribute, Text Swap, Text Attribute Akhtar et al. (2023) MM Mechanism 3 Manipulated content (deep fake, cheap fake), Out-of-context Newman and Schwarz (2024) MM Mechanism 5 Probative, Slanted, Repurposed, False, Decorative Liu et al. (2025) Textual, MM Mecha-nism 12 Textual veracity distortion (real text with AI image, real text with repurposed image, artificial text with AI image, GPT-generated text with AI image, GPT-generated text with repurposed image), Visual veracity distortion (PS-edited, AI-generated), Cross-modal consistency distortion (person inconsistency, semantic inconsistency, scene inconsistency, edited text, edited image) Dufour et al. (2024) Media Type, Image Type, MM Mechanism 11 Content manipulation (text, chyron, AI, general), Context manipulation (date, location, identity, circumstance, self-contextualising, atypical) Text-based manipulation, fake official documents Wang et al. (2024) MM Mechanism 8 Manipulation (face attribute edit, face swap, background change, AI gener-ated, PS, textual entity replace, text style transfer), Out-of-context 

Ours Image type, Emotion, Rhetorical role, Topic, Message, MM mecha-nism, Classification 25 Decorative, Fake image (AI-generated, forgery, staged), Manipulated image (addition, removal, replacement, textual, other edit), Unreliable source (satire, imposter, low credibility source, other provenance issues), Deny authenticity, Mismatch (identity, time, place, event, other mismatch), Slanted (exaggera-tion, scientific errors or conspiracies, misinterpretation of relevance, slanted representation), Textual claim, Other mechanism 

Table 2: Overview of taxonomies of mechanisms of multimodal misinformation. 

image_id and fact_check_url . We fil-ter “disqualified” entries and rows with missing columns. 59 .358 candidate remain. For each dataset instance, we 1) download the misinforma-tion image directly from its original source URL; 2) extract structured claim metadata (claimant, claim text, and review title) using Google’s Fact Check Tools API 12 ; 3) download the full text of each fact-check article from its publisher’s website us-ing trafilatura (Barbaresi, 2021). We further clean the raw article texts by removing empty or corrupted entries, or those that contain fewer than 100 words. After merging all downloaded con-tent, filtering and deduplicating, we left with 3.629 

dataset samples. In future work we aim to improve our data collection scheme to ensure more instances 

> 12

https://developers.google.com/fact-c heck/tools/api 

from AMM EBA are considered. 

D.2 Case Studies 

We extract and analyse narratives from misinformation samples using the following pipeline. First, each post’s Message is en-coded into a 768-dimensional semantic vec-tor using a multilingual sentence-transformer model ( all-mpnet-base-v2 (Reimers and Gurevych, 2020)). Where available, abstract-level paraphrases of each message (as mentioned in §5.2) are used as the embedding input to prevent surface-level lexical features from dominating the embed-ding. Then, we perform a UMAP dimensionality reduction on the embedding, projecting them into 10-dimensional vectors. Next, we cluster the embeddings into a two-level hierarchy. The top-level simply uses the pre-existing Topic labels. As each post may belong Exact Mean ≥1 Both One Skip Step # Match Jaccard Match Mean |A| Mean |B| Skip Skip Agree 

Inter-Annotator (human experts) 

Image Type 103 36.9% 0.6074 92.2% 1.82 1.43 – – –Emotion 103 21.4% 0.4002 69.9% 1.45 1.89 – – –Rhetoric Role 103 12.6% 0.3547 66.0% 1.72 1.76 – – –Classification 103 97.1% 0.9709 — 1.00 1.00 – – –Topic 92 41.3% 0.7047 96.7% 1.75 2.14 9 2 82% Mechanism 92 65.2% — — 1.00 1.00 9 2 82% Sub-mechanism 37 56.8% — — 1.00 1.00 32 16 67% 

Inter-Model (3 repetitions) 

Image Type 5805.3 67.1% 0.8021 96.5% – – – – –Emotion 5804.7 45.3% 0.6394 89.8% – – – – –Rhetoric Role 5801.7 33.2% 0.5720 89.1% – – – – –Classification 5804.0 100.0% 1.0000 — – – – – –Topic 5805.3 62.6% 0.8029 99.4% – – 44.0 0.7 99% Mechanism 5804.7 71.9% — — – – 44.0 1.3 97% Sub-mechanism 2852.3 86.1% — — – – 1540.7 1058.0 59% 

VLM–Human 

Image Type 106.0 33.3% 0.5653 86.3% 1.61 1.62 – – –Emotion 106.0 15.6% 0.3939 69.5% 1.68 1.76 – – –Rhetoric Role 106.0 3.3% 0.1758 40.9% 1.73 1.81 – – –Classification 106.0 95.7% 0.9571 — 1.00 1.00 – – –Topic 96.0 34.9% 0.6484 97.1% 1.95 2.00 0.0 10.5 0% Mechanism 96.0 49.1% — — 1.00 1.00 0.0 10.5 0% Sub-mechanism 37.7 50.7% — — 1.00 1.00 20.2 28.8 41%            

> Table 3: Agreement across all settings, by annotation step. ≥1 Match is at least one match. Mean |A| and Mean |B|
> are the mean number of labels per annotator. The “Skip” columns correspond to the annotation steps where there is a stop condition which one or more of the annotators encounter. Classification ,Mechanism , and Sub-mechanism are modelled as a single label prediction task, so the mean Jaccard score and ≥1 Match are not informative metrics, thus removed from the table.

to more than one topic (as described in §5.2), we “explode” our dataset, so that each (post, topic) pair is treated as an independent observation through-out all downstream analyses. We then use KMeans to further divide each top-level cluster into sub-clusters, with the number of sub-clusters propor-tional to topic size so that each sub-cluster contains approximately the same number of members ( ∼50 per sub-cluster). Finally, each sub-cluster is summarised by a large language model (Claude Sonnet 4.6, version April 20th, 2026) as follows. The 20 messages closest to the sub-cluster centroid in the original 768-dimensional embedding space are passed to the LLM. The prompt (listing 9) instructs the LLM to identify the underlying narrative rather than merely the surface topic. For each cluster, we cache its summary (a short sentence). The final output is a structured JSON file that maps each dataset in-stance to its cluster and its summary. To investigate narratives, we manually scan the cluster summaries and identify those related to narratives of interest. 

E Full Taxonomy Figure 8: Distribution of dataset samples over time. 

Figure 9: Co-occurrences of mechanisms vs topics on AMM EBA.

Figure 10: Co-occurrences of sub-mechanisms vs topics on Community Notes. 

Label Acc. n

Mechanism 

Other mechanism 69% 13 Textual claim image 70% 10 Decorative 84% 9Mismatch 86% 7Manipulated image 88% 8Slanted 89% 9Deny authenticity 89% 9Fake image 92% 13 Unreliable source 100% 11 

Sub-mechanism 

Fake image - Staged 38% 8Slanted - Misinterpretation of relevance 38% 8Manipulated image - Addition 60% 15 Slanted - Exaggeration 67% 9Slanted - Other slanted representation 70% 10 Mismatch - Event mismatch 77% 13 Mismatch - Place mismatch 78% 9Fake image - Forgery 82% 11 Mismatch - Time mismatch 82% 11 Manipulated image - Other edit 82% 11 Manipulated image -Textual 82% 11 Unreliable source - Imposter 83% 6Mismatch - Identity mismatch 83% 12 Fake image - AI generated 86% 7Slanted - Scientific errors or conspiracies 89% 9Manipulated image - Replacement 90% 10 Unreliable source - Low credibility source 90% 10 Unreliable source - Other provenance issues 100% 5Manipulated image - Removal 100% 5Unreliable source - Satire 100% 5

Table 4: Model prediction accuracy by mechanism and sub-mechanism label. Category Acc. Prec. Rec. F1 Support Mismatch 0.78 0.98 0.72 0.83 1723 Identity mismatch 0.85 0.77 0.68 0.72 348 Time mismatch 0.55 0.87 0.16 0.26 638 Place mismatch 0.80 0.78 0.50 0.61 385 Manipulated image 0.93 0.86 0.83 0.84 590 Text manipulation 0.76 0.97 0.50 0.66 278 AI manipulation 0.99 0.78 0.86 0.82 21 

Table 5: Agreement with AMM EBA’s existing human annotation on aligned categories. 

Statistic Value %

General 

Instances 26,979 Avg. post length (words) 19.4 Avg. note length (words) 28.2 Date range 2021-01 – 2026-01 

Language 

English 15,822 58.6 Spanish 3,312 12.3 Portuguese 2,254 8.4 Japanese 2,018 7.5 French 1,581 5.9 Unknown 1,023 3.8 German 712 2.6 Hebrew 257 1.0 

Table 6: Statistics for the Community Notes dataset. 

Statistic Value %

General 

Instances 3,629 Avg. claim length 13.2 Avg. fact-check title length 11.2 Avg. article length (non-null) 573 Date range 2022-03 – 2023-10 

Language 

English 3505 96.5 Hindi 114 3.1 Other 10 0.4 

Misinformation source platform 

Facebook 1,676 29.7 Web archive 1,767 31.3 Twitter/X 1,038 18.4 Instagram 193 3.4 Other 973 17.2 

Fact-checking outlet (top 5) 

AFP FactCheck 1,188 21.0 Factly 737 13.0 AltNews 576 10.2 PolitiFact 511 9.0 BOOM Live 492 8.7 

Table 7: Dataset statistics for AMM EBA.

Figure 11: Co-occurrences of sub-mechanisms vs topics on AMM EBA.

Figure 12: Distribution of topics across languages on Community Notes. 

Figure 13: Co-occurrences of sub-mechanisms vs lan-guage on the Community Notes dataset. Username Post Image Community Note 

@jackson Yemen is READY! This image is from a Houthi military parade held in Yemen on September 2023. It is being recirculated in 2025 without context, which may mislead viewers into thinking it is a recent event... @sulaimani JUST IN: Half of the stores have closed their doors in Tel Aviv due to Iranian strikes and the markets are empty Source: Israeli media Maariv 

This image was previously posted in April 2024 and does not depict current events. archive.ph... @south_asia Big Breaking Pakistan claims it has shot down an Indian Rafale jet near Bahawalpur... 

Misinformation! This is an old image from an earlier incident involving an Indian Air Force (IAF) MiG-29 fighter jet that crashed in Barmer, Rajasthan, in September 2024. x.com/dintentdata/st... 

Table 8: Examples of misinformation instances from the Community Notes dataset classified with the topic Conflict 

and the sub-mechanisms Place mismatch , Time mismatch , or Event mismatch .

Figure 14: Sub-mechanism distribution on Community Notes for misinformation instances related to athletic rivalry. We show divergence from the overall distribution across all misinformation instances. Stars indicate statistical significance. Username Post Image Community Note 

@healthbot1 Wow. COVID-19 vaccines being used in the U.S. do NOT contain live virus, so they are incapable of causing shedding: chop.edu/parents-pack/p... @truthseeker “Sudden And Unexpected” The European Court of Justice has ruled that healthcare professionals who urged or coerced people to take the mRNA vaccines can be criminally prosecuted... 

The judgement (curia.europa.eu/juris/document...) rejects every appeal by Frajese and specifically explains why doctors aren’t liable (paragraphs 34 to 39 and 49 to 50) @healthbot1 -> While there have been reports of leprosy reactions in vaccinated individuals, these are NOT new cases of leprosy caused by the vaccine. Instead, they are immune responses in individuals already carrying the bacteria. This has been debunked several times: techarp.com/facts/pfizer-v... 

Table 9: Examples of misinformation instances from the Community Notes dataset related to vaccination, with image type News Screenshot .Figure 15: Sub-mechanism distribution on Community Notes for misinformation instances related to vaccination. 

Figure 16: Image type distribution on Community Notes for misinformation instances related to vaccination. Figure 17: Sub-mechanism distribution on Community Notes for misinformation instances related to immigration. 

Figure 18: Emotion distribution on Community Notes for misinformation instances related to immigration. SYSTEM_PROMPT You are an expert annotator specialising in analysing image content on social media. You answer questions with precision and conciseness. USER_PROMPT You will be given an IMAGE that was posted on a social media platform. Your task is to classify the IMAGE into one or more categories from the taxonomy below. This is a multilabel task: an IMAGE may belong to multiple categories simultaneously. For example, a meme that is also ascreenshot of a social media post should be labeled as both MEME and SOCIAL_MEDIA_SCREENSHOT. ## Taxonomy - SIMPLE_PHOTO_PEOPLE: A photograph captured with a camera (with at most minimal editing such as cropping or color correction) that primarily depicts one or more people. Examples: a portrait, a candid shot of a crowd, a selfie - SIMPLE_PHOTO_OBJECT: A minimally edited photograph primarily depicting a physical object or product. Examples: a photo of a weapon, a consumer product, a vehicle. - SIMPLE_PHOTO_EVENT: A minimally edited photograph documenting a specific event or happening. Examples: a protest, aceremony, an accident scene. - SIMPLE_PHOTO_ENVIRONMENT: A minimally edited photograph of a place, landscape, or setting. Examples: a cityscape, a flooded area, a building exterior. - SIMPLE_PHOTO_DOCUMENT: A photograph of a physical document, sign, or handwritten note. Examples: a photo of a printed receipt taken with a phone, a photo of a whiteboard. - SIMPLE_PHOTO_OTHER: A minimally edited photograph that does not fit any of the above subcategories. Examples: food, animals, abstract patterns. - SOCIAL_MEDIA_SCREENSHOT: A screen capture of content from a social media platform (e.g., X/Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, TikTok, Reddit, Telegram). The platform UI (e.g., like/share buttons, usernames, timestamps) should be at least partially visible. - NEWS_SCREENSHOT: A screen capture from a news source: a news website, TV broadcast, news app, or newspaper. - OTHER_SCREENSHOT: A clear screenshot that is not of a social media platform or a news source. The UI should be at least partially visible. - OFFICIAL_DOCUMENT: A digital rendering of a formal institutional document such as a government form, court filing, or official report. Distinguished from SIMPLE_PHOTO_DOCUMENT by being a direct digital reproduction rather than a casual photograph. - OTHER_TEXT: An image whose content is primarily text but does not fit the above text-bearing categories. Examples: a quote on a plain background, a text-only listicle, a plain text statement. - DATA_VISUALIZATION: A chart, graph, map, or table presenting structured quantitative or geospatial data. Examples: bar charts, line graphs, choropleth maps, statistical tables. - DIGITAL_ART: An illustration or rendering created from scratch using a software. Examples: digital paintings, vector art, 3D renders. - GRAPHIC_DESIGN: A designed visual composition for communication or promotion, combining typography, imagery, and/or layout elements. Examples: advertisements, campaign posters, branded infographics, flyers. - MEME: An image following a recognizable memetic template or internet humor convention, typically combining a stock or reaction image with overlaid text for humorous, satirical, or rhetorical effect. - ANNOTATED_IMAGE: A base image overlaid with explanatory graphical elements such as arrows, circles, labels, or highlights to draw attention to or explain specific features. Examples: a satellite image with circled areas, a photo with arrows pointing to details. - CAPTIONED_IMAGE: A simple structure in which a single image is paired with a text element (headline, caption, or label), typically placed above or below the image. The composition contains no more than one image and one text block. - IMAGE_COLLAGE: A composition of multiple photographs arranged together (e.g., in a grid or side-by-side layout) without significant additional graphic or textual elements. Examples: before/after comparisons, photo grids. - COMPLEX_COMPOSITE: A multi-element composition combining three or more distinct content types (e.g., photographs, text blocks, data visualizations, graphic elements, arrows) into a single structured image. Examples: conspiratorial infographics, elaborate explainer images mixing photos with maps and quoted text. - OTHER: Any image that does not fit the categories above. ## Instructions - Examine the IMAGE carefully and assign ALL categories that apply. Do not limit yourself to a single label. - Apply the SIMPLE_PHOTO_* labels only to photographs that appear to be camera-captured with minimal editing. If a photo is embedded within a larger composition, label the composition type (e.g., CAPTIONED_IMAGE, COMPLEX_COMPOSITE, IMAGE_COLLAGE) but do NOT label the embedded photo separately. - When in doubt between CAPTIONED_IMAGE and COMPLEX_COMPOSITE, use CAPTIONED_IMAGE only if the structure is limited to one image and one text element. If there are additional elements, use COMPLEX_COMPOSITE. - When in doubt between CAPTIONED_IMAGE and MEME, apply MEME only if the image follows a recognizable memetic template or internet humor convention. - Here are some examples of common label co-occurrences: - A news screenshot containing a data visualization -> NEWS_SCREENSHOT + DATA_VISUALIZATION - An annotated photograph of people -> ANNOTATED_IMAGE + SIMPLE_PHOTO_PEOPLE - A collage with added text headers -> IMAGE_COLLAGE + CAPTIONED_IMAGE - A screenshot of a Wikipedia article -> OTHER_SCREENSHOT + OTHER_TEXT - A table in an official document -> OFFICIAL_DOCUMENT + DATA_VISUALIZATION ## Output format Return a JSON object with the following fields: - "labels": a list of applicable category labels (use the exact uppercase identifiers above). - "reasoning": a brief explanation (2-3 sentences) justifying why each label was assigned. Output ONLY a JSON object with the following structure. Do not include any preamble, explanation, or markdown formatting. Example output: {"labels": ["SOCIAL_MEDIA_SCREENSHOT", "MEME"], "reasoning": "The image is a screenshot of a Twitter post, as indicated by the visible Twitter UI elements. The content of the post is a meme using the ’distracted boyfriend’ template with overlaid text." }Now classify the following IMAGE: ## Input IMAGE: {{image}} 

Listing 1: The prompt used to classify the type of the image. SYSTEM_PROMPT You are an expert annotator specialising in analysing multimodal content on social media. You answer questions with precision and conciseness. USER_PROMPT ## Instructions You will be given a POST, IMAGE, and USERNAME. The POST and IMAGE are the text and image posted by USERNAME on a social media platform containing some claim, which might be either correct or incorrect. Carefully evaluate the POST and determine the relationship between the POST and the IMAGE. Specifically, determine which **emotion** USERNAME is trying to evoke by including the IMAGE. Importantly, try to estimate which emotions **USERNAME** is trying to evoke, not which emotions a random social media user might feel. For example, if the POST contain anti-LGBT content, and the IMAGE contains the pride flag, USERNAME is probably trying to evoke *anger*. Select any number of items from the following list: - joy: A feeling of pleasure and happiness. - hope: A feeling of expectation and desire for a certain thing to happen. - pride: A feeling of deep pleasure or satisfaction derived from one’s own achievements, the achievements of those with whom one is closely associated, or from qualities or possessions that are widely admired. - curiosity: A strong desire to know or learn something. - other_positive_emotion: Any other positive emotion not listed above. - anger: A strong feeling of annoyance, displeasure, or hostility. - sadness: A feeling of sorrow or unhappiness. - fear: An unpleasant emotion caused by the threat of danger, pain, or harm. - ridicule: The subjection of someone or something to contemptuous and dismissive language or behavior. - other_negative_emotion: Any other negative emotion not listed above. - neutral_emotion: The IMAGE evokes a neutral emotion ## Output format Return a JSON object with the following fields: - "emotions": a list of applicable category labels. - "reasoning": a brief explanation (2-3 sentences) justifying why each label was assigned. Output ONLY a JSON object with the following structure. Do not include any preamble, explanation, or markdown formatting. Example output: {"emotions": ["anger", "fear", "sadness"], "reasoning": "The IMAGE is of a plane crash and the POST claims that the crush was caused by malpractice from the engineering team. The IMAGE is used to evoke anger at the engineers who failed maintaining the plane, sadness for the lost life, and fear that such accident might happen again." }## Input USERNAME: {{username}} POST: {{post}} IMAGE: {{image}} 

Listing 2: The prompt used to classify the emotions the user is trying to evoke by including the image in their post. SYSTEM_PROMPT You are an expert fact-checker specialising in analysing multimodal misinformation on social media. You answer questions with precision and conciseness. USER_PROMPT ## Instructions You will be given a POST, IMAGE, USERNAME, and ADDITIONAL_CONTEXT. The POST and IMAGE are the text and image posted by USERNAME on a social media platform containing some claim. ADDITIONAL_CONTEXT provides background on the POST and IMAGE and explains how they may be misleading. Carefully evaluate ADDITIONAL_CONTEXT and determine the specific nature of POST and the IMAGE. Select *exactly one* of the following options. They are listed in priority order: if multiple could apply, select the first one that fits. - misinformation: The POST and IMAGE spread misinformation. USERNAME is trying to promote some incorrect message or narrative. - ad: The ADDITIONAL_CONTEXT claims that the POST and IMAGE contain an undisclosed advertisement. USERNAME is trying to sell or promote a product or a service. - scam: The ADDITIONAL_CONTEXT claims that the POST and IMAGE contain a scam of some sort. - stolen_content: The ADDITIONAL_CONTEXT claims that the IMAGE was posted without properly crediting its original creator. USERNAME is pretending to post an original work. - engagement_bait: The ADDITIONAL_CONTEXT claims that the POST and IMAGE are engagement bait -- trying to provoke a strong reaction from the reader. ## Output Format Output ONLY a JSON object with the following structure. Do not include any preamble, explanation, or markdown formatting. {"classification": "misinformation|ad|scam|stolen_content|engagement_bait", "reasoning": "<reasoning>" }## Input USERNAME: {{username}} POST: {{post}} IMAGE: {{image}} ADDITIONAL_CONTEXT: {{note}} 

Listing 3: The prompt used to determine whether the post is considered misinformation. SYSTEM_PROMPT You are an expert annotator specialising in analysing multimodal content on social media. You answer questions with precision and conciseness. USER_PROMPT ## Instructions You will be given a POST, IMAGE, USERNAME, and ADDITIONAL_CONTEXT. The POST and IMAGE are the text and image posted by USERNAME on a social media platform containing some claim. ADDITIONAL_CONTEXT provides background on the POST and IMAGE and explains how they may be misleading. Your goal is to analyze the POST, IMAGE, USERNAME and provide the following information: - topic: The topic of the post. Choose from: politics, economics, science, health, entertainment, sports, celebrities, conflict, law, religion, technology, culture, other. This is a multilabel task -- some posts might belong to several topics. - message: Describe the main message USERNAME is trying to convey by posting the POST and IMAGE. Treat the input as correct and true. Do not debunk, fact-check, or invalidate the message. Do not include caveats or disclaimers. - message_abstract_level_[1-3]: Paraphase the message to be more more anstract and generic, while still capturing the essence of the original message. There are three levels of abstractation: from 1, somewhat abstract (no named entities are mentioned) to 3, extremely abstract (only the most high-level idea is conveyed). Importantly, abstraction level 1should have no more than 8 words, abstractation level 2 no more than 6 words, and abstractation level 3 no more than 4words. ## Examples Example 1: USERNAME: PatriotVoices POST: "Senator Smith just voted against the veterans’ benefits bill for the THIRD time!" IMAGE: A photo of Senator Smith walking out of the Senate building. ADDITIONAL_CONTEXT: The bill was a broader spending package, not solely a veterans’ benefits bill. Output: {"topic": ["politics", "law"], "message": "Senator Smith has repeatedly voted against legislation meant to support veterans.", "message_abstract_level_1": "A politician repeatedly opposes veteran support legislation", "message_abstract_level_2": "Politician opposed veteran support bill", "message_abstract_level_3": "Politician harms veterans" }Example 2: USERNAME: HealthAlerts POST: "Shocking discovery" IMAGE: A screenshot of a headline reading "Scientists confirm: eating breakfast daily reduces heart disease risk by 40%" ADDITIONAL_CONTEXT: The study cited in the headline had a small sample size and the 40% figure was not statistically significant. Output: {"topic": ["health", "science"], "message": "Scientists have found that eating breakfast every day significantly reduces the risk of heart disease.", "message_abstract_level_1": "Eating breakfast daily significantly reduces heart disease risk", "message_abstract_level_2": "Eating breakfast reduces disease risk", "message_abstract_level_3": "Dietary habit prevents disease" }## Important Notes - Often, the POST doesn’t contain any textual claim, and instead the claim appears as text in the IMAGE. In such cases, answer as if the text in the IMAGE also appears in the POST. - Characterize the post’s intended message as if it were genuine. Do NOT fact-check or debunk. ## Output format Output ONLY a JSON object with the following structure. Do not include any preamble, explanation, or markdown formatting. Output your analysis *in English*. {"topic": [topic1, topic2,...], "message": <message>, "message_abstract_level_1": <message_abstract_level_1>, "message_abstract_level_2": <message_abstract_level_2>, "message_abstract_level_3": <message_abstract_level_3>, }## Input USERNAME: {{username}} POST: {{post}} IMAGE: {{image}} ADDITIONAL_CONTEXT: {{note}} 

Listing 4: The prompt used to extract the topic and message of a post. SYSTEM_PROMPT You are an expert annotator specializing in analyzing multimodal content on social media. You have deep knowledge of image-text relationships and visual rhetoric. You answer questions with precision and conciseness. USER_PROMPT ## Instructions You will be given a POST, IMAGE, and USERNAME. The POST and IMAGE are the text and image posted by USERNAME on a social media platform. Your goal is to analyze the functional relationship between the IMAGE and the POST - that is, what role does the IMAGE play relative to the textual content of the POST? Classify the IMAGE-POST pair into **one or more** of the following relationship categories, based on the taxonomy of Marsh & White (2003). The categories are organized into three high-level groups (A, B, C) according to how closely the image relates to the text. ### A - Functions expressing little relation to the text The IMAGE has a weak conceptual connection to the POST’s content. It does not directly represent or extend the claims in the text. - **A1_decorate**: The IMAGE makes the POST more visually attractive or attention-grabbing without meaningfully affecting the reader’s understanding of the text. It may also interrupt continuity or match the stylistic tone of the POST. - **A2_elicit_emotion**: The IMAGE encourages an emotional response (e.g., shock, sympathy, outrage, humor) through its content or style, but is not closely tied to the specific factual claims in the POST. This includes cases where the IMAGE creates tension or mood through contrast in style or tone with the text. - **A3_control**: The IMAGE directs, holds, or regulates the reader’s attention, or motivates a response (e.g., engagement, sharing, clicking). Use this when the IMAGE primarily serves to engage or motivate the reader rather than to inform. ### B - Functions expressing close relation to the text The IMAGE has a direct conceptual connection to the POST’s content. It visually restates, organizes, or explains what the text says. - **B1_reiterate**: The IMAGE visually restates or makes concrete what the text says, with minimal added interpretation. This includes showing what the text describes (concretizing), providing a visual translation of written content, showing aspecific example or instance of what the text references, depicting the person or source mentioned, or presenting data as a graph. - **B2_organize**: The IMAGE provides spatial, temporal, or conceptual structure to the text’s content - e.g., locating events in time or place, establishing a setting, containing information in a structured format (flowchart, timeline, Venn diagram), or inducing perspective by encouraging the reader to see things in their relative importance. - **B3_relate**: The IMAGE explicitly compares, contrasts, or draws a parallel between elements described in the text. The comparison stays within the scope of the text’s own content. - **B4_condense**: The IMAGE reduces the text’s content to its most essential or critical elements, presenting a simplified or concentrated version of the information. - **B5_explain**: The IMAGE makes the text’s content clearer or more understandable. This includes defining concepts, or complementing the text so that image and text together convey the message more effectively than either alone. ### C - Functions that go beyond the text The IMAGE adds meaning, interpretation, or content that is not present in the text itself. - **C1_interpret**: The IMAGE provides force, importance, or emphasis to the text’s content, or documents it with factual/visual evidence not mentioned in the text. The image illustrates complex ideas in a concrete form that goes beyond what the text states. - **C2_develop**: The IMAGE expands on the text by introducing new details, comparisons, or contrasts using elements not present in the text. This includes analogizing (drawing a resemblance to something outside the text) or contrasting with external content for rhetorical effect. - **C3_transform**: The IMAGE recodes, reorganizes, or reinterprets the text in a fundamentally new way. This includes modeling cognitive or physical processes not directly observable, alternating with the text to progress a narrative, or using the text as a starting point to introduce substantially new content. ## Examples Example 1 - **A2_elicit_emotion**: USERNAME: TruthPatriot99 POST: "Our border is under siege. When will our leaders act?" IMAGE: A dramatic aerial photo of a large crowd of people at a border fence. Output: {"image_text_relationship": ["A2_elicit_emotion"], "reasoning": "The POST makes a general political claim about border policy. The IMAGE - a dramatic, large-scale aerial shot - is selected primarily to evoke alarm and urgency rather than to document a specific event referenced in the text. The emotional impact of the image is the primary function." }... (6 more examples) ... ## Important Notes - This is a **multilabel** task: a single IMAGE-POST pair can fulfill multiple functions simultaneously. Assign all that apply. - Focus on the **functional relationship** between the IMAGE and the POST’s textual content - not on the image’s subject matter in isolation. - The categories refer to the image’s role relative to the text, not to the image’s inherent quality or genre. - When the IMAGE contains text (e.g., a screenshot of a headline, a meme with overlaid text), treat the text within the IMAGE as part of the visual content and assess its relationship to the POST. - If the POST has minimal or no text, base your analysis on whatever text is present (including hashtags, captions, or emojis). - Classify at the most specific applicable level. For example, if an image both reiterates and explains the text, assign both B1_reiterate and B5_explain. - Prefer labels where the function is clearly present. Do not assign a label based on weak or speculative connections. ## Output Format Output ONLY a single valid JSON object with this structure. Do not include any preamble, explanation, or markdown formatting. {"image_text_relationship": ["label_1", "label_2", ...], "reasoning": "<reasoning>"} ## Input USERNAME: {{username}} POST: {{post}} IMAGE: {{image}} 

Listing 5: The prompt used to classify the rhetorical role employed by the user. SYSTEM_PROMPT You are an expert fact-checker analyzing multimodal misinformation on social media. You ONLY output valid JSON - no preamble, markdown, or explanation outside the JSON object. USER_PROMPT ## Task Analyze a social media post (text + image) in two phases: - Phase 1: Characterize the post’s intended message as if it were genuine. Do NOT fact-check or debunk. - Phase 2: Using ADDITIONAL_CONTEXT, diagnose whether the image contributes to the misleading nature of the post. Complete Phase 1 reasoning fully before considering ADDITIONAL_CONTEXT for Phase 2. ## Field Definitions - topic: Primary topic. Choose from: politics, economics, science, health, entertainment, sports, celebrities, conflict, law, religion, technology, culture, other - message: The main message USERNAME intends to convey, in under 15 words. Treat the post as genuine. No caveats or debunking. - image_misleads: Does the IMAGE itself contribute to making the post misleading - e.g., by being fabricated, manipulated, taken out of context? Answer "YES" if removing or replacing the image would change the message being conveyed by USERNAME or prevent the message from being understood. Similarly, answer "YES" if the ADDITIONAL_CONTEXT claims that the USERNAME describes the IMAGE in a misleading way, such as misrepresenting its meaning or consequences, or drawing false or exaggerated conclusions from it. Conversely, answer "NO" if the image is merely illustrative (e.g., a stock photo of a person mentioned in the POST), and is not described in a misleading way by USERNAME. - reasoning: 1-3 sentences explaining your image_misleads judgment. ## Examples Example 1: POST: "Breaking: [Politician] arrested for fraud!" IMAGE: An unedited official headshot of the politician. ADDITIONAL_CONTEXT: The politician was not arrested. The claim is fabricated. Output: {"topic": "politics", "message": "Politician was arrested for committing fraud", "image_misleads": "NO", "reasoning": "The image is a generic headshot that merely identifies the politician. The misleading claim is entirely textual - removing the image would not reduce the post’s deceptive effect." }Example 2: POST: "Look at the massive crowd at the rally today!" IMAGE: A photo of a large crowd, but it is actually from a concert 3 years ago. ADDITIONAL_CONTEXT: The image is from a 2021 music festival, not the rally referenced. Output: {"topic": "politics", "message": "A massive crowd attended today’s rally", "image_misleads": "YES", "reasoning": "The image is taken out of context - it depicts a different event entirely. Without this misattributed image, the post’s claim of a large crowd has no visual evidence." }## Important Notes - The IMAGE is provided as a visual input. If relevant text appears within the image, treat it as part of the post’s claim. - If ADDITIONAL_CONTEXT is missing or unclear, base your Phase 2 analysis on what you can observe and state your uncertainty in the reasoning field. ## Output Format Output ONLY a single valid JSON object with this structure: {"topic": "<topic>", "message": "<message>", "image_misleads": "YES|NO", "reasoning": "<reasoning>" }## Inputs USERNAME: {{username}} POST: {{post}} IMAGE: {{image}} ADDITIONAL_CONTEXT: {{note}} 

Listing 6: The prompt used to the multimodal misinformation mechanism. Stage 1. ## Further instructions You have stated that the IMAGE itself contribute to making the post misleading. Your reasoning is "{{reasoning}}". Using the ADDITIONAL_CONTEXT and your answers to the previous questions, determine the specific mechanism that USERNAME is employing to mislead with *the IMAGE*. Choose exactly one of the following labels: - fake_image: The ADDITIONAL_CONTEXT claims that the IMAGE is fabricated, AI-generated, staged, or otherwise completely fake. - manipulated_image: The IMAGE is a real image, but the ADDITIONAL_CONTEXT claims it was digitally altered or edited in some manner. - unreliable_source: The IMAGE itself depicts content from an unreliable source - e.g., it is a screenshot of a satirical account, a low-credibility outlet, or an impersonator account. The issue concerns the source shown *within* the IMAGE, not USERNAME’s account or the text in the POST. - deny_authenticity: The POST incorrectly denies the authenticity of the IMAGE, but the ADDITIONAL_CONTEXT claims that the IMAGE is real. - mismatch: The ADDITIONAL_CONTEXT explains that the POST makes a factually incorrect claim about the content or context of the IMAGE, such as incorrect time, place, person, or event. Use this when the IMAGE is misidentified or taken from adifferent context entirely. - slanted: The ADDITIONAL_CONTEXT claims that the POST describes the IMAGE in a misleading way, such as misrepresenting its meaning or consequences, or drawing false or exaggerated conclusions from it. Use this when the IMAGE is correctly identified but the interpretation or conclusion is misleading. - textual_claim_image: The IMAGE contains the claim in a textual form, and the claim is false. The IMAGE contains no important visual elements apart from the text. - other_mechanism: The additional context describes a different mechanism that is not listed above. - nothing: Select this option if you think your answer to the question "image_misleads" is incorrect. ## Examples Example 1 - **mismatch** (image correctly depicts something real, but is misattributed to the wrong event/time/place): POST: "Incredible footage of Russian troops retreating outside Kyiv!" IMAGE: A video still showing military vehicles on a road. ADDITIONAL_CONTEXT: The footage is from a 2019 military exercise in Belarus, unrelated to the referenced conflict. Previous reasoning: "The image is presented as live evidence of a current military event, but it is archival footage from adifferent country and time - removing it would eliminate the only ’proof’ of the claim." Output: {"mechanism": "mismatch", "reasoning": "The image is real footage but is misattributed to a completely different event, time, and location. This is a context mismatch: the image is not fake or edited, it simply does not depict what the POST claims." }Example 2 - **slanted** (image is correctly identified, but the POST draws false or exaggerated conclusions from it): POST: "Thousands flood the streets demanding the president’s resignation - the regime is crumbling!" IMAGE: A genuine photo of a protest in the capital city. ADDITIONAL_CONTEXT: The protest shown is real and correctly located, but attendance was estimated at a few hundred people, and it was one of many routine demonstrations. Previous reasoning: "The image is a real, correctly identified photo of the protest, but the POST wildly exaggerates its scale and frames it as a historic turning point that the image does not support." Output: {"mechanism": "slanted", "reasoning": "The image is authentic and correctly identified, but the POST misrepresents its significance - inflating the crowd size and framing a routine protest as a regime-collapsing event. The misleading element is interpretive, not factual misattribution." }Example 3 - **unreliable_source** (the IMAGE itself shows content from a low-credibility or satirical source): POST: "Even the CDC admits vaccines cause autism - finally the truth comes out!" IMAGE: A screenshot of a tweet from the account @CDCofficial_news. ADDITIONAL_CONTEXT: The account shown in the screenshot is a parody account impersonating the CDC. The real CDC account is @CDCgov and has never made such a claim. Previous reasoning: "The image displays what appears to be an official government statement, lending false authority to the claim - but the account depicted is a known impersonator." Output: {"mechanism": "unreliable_source", "reasoning": "The IMAGE is a screenshot of a parody/impersonator account, not the real CDC. The misleading element is the source depicted within the image itself - it creates the false impression of an authoritative endorsement." }## Important Notes - Select "nothing" *only if* you think your answer to the question "image_misleads" is incorrect. - Use **mismatch** when the image is real but depicts the *wrong* event, person, time, or place - the factual identification is incorrect. - Use **slanted** when the image is real and correctly identified, but the POST *interprets* it in a misleading way (exaggerated conclusions, false framing). - Use **unreliable_source** when the IMAGE shows a screenshot or depiction of content *from* a satirical, parody, or low-credibility source - the issue is the source shown inside the image, not USERNAME’s own account. ## Output Format Output ONLY a single valid JSON object with this structure: {"mechanism": "fake_image|manipulated_image|unreliable_source|deny_authenticity|mismatch|slanted|textual_claim_image|other_mechanism|nothing", "reasoning": "<reasoning>" }

Listing 7: The prompt used to the multimodal misinformation mechanism. Stage 2. USER_PROMPT ## Further instructions The mechanism you selected is "{{mechanism}}". Your reasoning is "{{reasoning}}". Your task now is to further classify the used sub mechanism. Provide the following fields: - sub_mechanism: Using the ADDITIONAL_CONTEXT, determine the *specific* sub mechanism USERNAME is using to mislead with *the IMAGE*. Choose exactly one of the following labels: {{SUB_MECHANISM_OPTIONS}} - sub_mechanism_reasoning: Explain your reasoning behind your selection of sub_mechanism. ## Examples {{EXAMPLES}} ## Output Format Output ONLY a JSON object with the following structure. Do not include any preamble, explanation, or markdown formatting. {"sub_mechanism": "<sub_mechanism>", "sub_mechanism_reasoning": "<sub_mechanism_reasoning>" }SUB_MECHANISM_OPTIONS: ---------------<MISMATCH> -- identity_mismatch: The POST incorrectly names an entity in the IMAGE, such as a person, a brand, or an object. -- time_mismatch: The POST incorrectly describes the time/date of when the IMAGE was captured. -- place_mismatch: The POST incorrectly describes the location of where the IMAGE was captured. -- event_mismatch: There is a discrepancy regarding the event depicted in the IMAGE and the textual description in the POST. (e.g., a concert is described as a protest). -- other_mismatch: Any other type of mismatch. </MISMATCH> ...EXAMPLES ---------------<MISMATCH_EXAMPLES> Example - identity_mismatch: POST: "Senator Johnson leaving the courthouse after his indictment." IMAGE: A man in a suit exiting a building. ADDITIONAL_CONTEXT: The person pictured is Senator Williams, not Senator Johnson. Mechanism: mismatch | Previous reasoning: "The POST names a specific politician, but the person shown is a different official." Output: {"sub_mechanism": "identity_mismatch", "sub_mechanism_reasoning": "The core error is a misnamed person - the event and location may be accurate, but the wrong entity is identified." }Example - event_mismatch (note: if place is also wrong, still prefer event_mismatch when the nature of the event is the primary distortion): POST: "Violent riots erupting downtown as protesters clash with police." IMAGE: A large crowd gathered outdoors. ADDITIONAL_CONTEXT: The image is from a music festival held in the same city the previous year - no riot occurred. Mechanism: mismatch | Previous reasoning: "The POST describes a riot, but the crowd is at a music festival." Output: {"sub_mechanism": "event_mismatch", "sub_mechanism_reasoning": "The event type is fundamentally mischaracterised - a peaceful festival is presented as aviolent riot. Although the location may also differ, the dominant mismatch is the nature of the event, not the place." }## Important Notes - If both place and event are wrong, pick whichever is the *primary* distortion (usually ‘event_mismatch‘) - If both time and place are wrong, pick "place_mismatch". - ‘identity_mismatch‘ applies to misnamed persons, brands, or objects - not to mischaracterised events </MISMATCH_EXAMPLES> 

Listing 8: The prompt used to the multimodal misinformation mechanism. Stage 3. The {{SUB_MECHANISM_OPTIONS}} and {{EXAMPLES}} are replaced by mechanism-specific options and examples. To save space we show only the options and examples of the Mismatch category here. The other categories can be found in the GitHub at REDACTED. SYSTEM_PROMPT You are an expert analyst of patterns in social media. You will receive a list of short sentences describing tweets. In particular, the sentences describe the core message or narrative of a tweet, i.e., what the poster is trying to say or convey. Identify the common theme that unites these narratives. Importantly, do not just summarize the literal topic, but rather the underlying message or narrative. For example, if the claims are about "vaccine side effects", "government control", and "pharmaceutical profits", the common theme might be "Skepticism of mainstream medicine driven by distrust". Important! Analyse these sentences as if they are correct and true. Do not try to debunk, fact-check, or invalidate the claims. Do not include any caveats or disclaimers. Instead, focus on understanding the core narrative that would make these claims compelling to a reader who believes them. Respond ONLY with valid JSON matching the requested format.""" USER_PROMPT: Here are {n} tweet message descriptions from a cluster: {messages} Identify the common theme. Respond with this JSON structure: {{"label": "<a short sentence capturing the common narratives>", "description": "<2-3 sentence description of the common pattern>", "domain": "<one of: politics, celebrity, sports, health, science, technology, conspiracy, advertising, other>", "keywords": ["<keyword1>", "<keyword2>", "<keyword3>", "<keyword4>", "<keyword5>"]}}""" 

Listing 9: The prompt used to summarise clusters for the analysis. 

Figure 19: The annotation platform the expert annotators used to label the Community Notes and AM EBA with categories from our taxonomy (as described in §4.4). Table 10: Our multimodal taxonomy. Each axis introduces a group of labels (sub-mechanisms are indented ,→

under their parent mechanism). 

Label Definition CLASSIFICATION 

misinformation The post and image spread misinformation. The user is trying to promote some incorrect message or narrative. 

ad The additional context claims that the post and image contain an undisclosed advertisement. The user is trying to sell or promote a product or a service. 

scam The additional context claims that the post and image contain a scam of some sort. 

stolen content The additional context claims that the image was posted without properly crediting its original creator. The user is pretending to post an original work. Select this option only if the post and image do not spread misinformation. 

engagement bait The additional context claims that the post and image are engagement bait — trying to provoke a strong reaction from the reader. Select this option only if the post and image do not spread misinformation. 

IMAGE TYPE 

simple photo people A photograph captured with a camera (with at most minimal editing such as cropping or color correction) that primarily depicts one or more people. Examples: a portrait, a candid shot of a crowd, a selfie. 

simple photo object A minimally edited photograph primarily depicting a physical object or product. Examples: a photo of a weapon, a consumer product, a vehicle. 

simple photo event A minimally edited photograph documenting a specific event or happening. Examples: a protest, a ceremony, an accident scene. 

simple photo environment A minimally edited photograph of a place, landscape, or setting. Examples: a cityscape, a flooded area, a building exterior. 

simple photo document A photograph of a physical document, sign, or handwritten note. Examples: a photo of a printed receipt taken with a phone, a photo of a whiteboard. 

simple photo other A minimally edited photograph that does not fit any of the above simple photo subcategories. Examples: food, animals, abstract patterns. 

social media screenshot A screen capture of content from a social media platform (e.g., X/Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, TikTok, Reddit, Telegram). The platform UI (e.g., like/share buttons, usernames, timestamps) should be at least partially visible. 

news screenshot A screen capture from a news source: a news website, TV broadcast, news app, or newspaper. 

other screenshot A clear screenshot that is not of a social media platform or a news source. The UI should be at least partially visible. 

Continued on next page Table 10 (continued). 

Label Definition 

official document A digital rendering of a formal institutional document such as a government form, court filing, or official report. Distinguished from simple photo document by being a direct digital reproduction rather than a casual photograph. 

other text An image whose content is primarily text but does not fit the above text-bearing categories. Examples: a quote on a plain background, a text-only listicle, a plain text statement. 

data visualization A chart, graph, map, or table presenting structured quantitative or geospatial data. Examples: bar charts, line graphs, choropleth maps, statistical tables. 

digital art An illustration or rendering created from scratch using software. Examples: digital paintings, vector art, 3D renders. 

graphic design A designed visual composition for communication or promotion, combining typography, imagery, and/or layout elements. Examples: advertisements, campaign posters, branded infographics, flyers. 

meme An image following a recognizable memetic template or internet humor convention, typically combining a stock or reaction image with overlaid text for humorous, satirical, or rhetorical effect. 

annotated image A base image overlaid with explanatory graphical elements such as arrows, circles, labels, or highlights to draw attention to or explain specific features. Examples: a satellite image with circled areas, a photo with arrows pointing to details. 

captioned image A simple structure in which a single image is paired with a text element (headline, caption, or label), typically placed above or below the image. The composition contains no more than one image and one text block. 

image collage A composition of multiple photographs arranged together (e.g., in a grid or side-by-side layout) without significant additional graphic or textual elements. Examples: before/after comparisons, photo grids. 

complex composite A multi-element composition combining three or more distinct content types (e.g., photographs, text blocks, data visualizations, graphic elements, arrows) into a single structured image. Examples: conspiratorial infographics, elaborate explainer images mixing photos with maps and quoted text. 

other Any image that does not fit the categories above. 

EMOTION 

joy A feeling of pleasure and happiness. 

hope A feeling of expectation and desire for a certain thing to happen. 

pride A feeling of deep pleasure or satisfaction derived from one’s own achievements, the achievements of those with whom one is closely associated, or from qualities or possessions that are widely admired. 

curiosity A strong desire to know or learn something. 

other positive emotion Any other positive emotion not listed above. 

anger A strong feeling of annoyance, displeasure, or hostility. 

sadness A feeling of sorrow or unhappiness. 

fear An unpleasant emotion caused by the threat of danger, pain, or harm. 

ridicule The subjection of someone or something to contemptuous and dismissive language or behavior. 

other negative emotion Any other negative emotion not listed above. 

neutral emotion The image evokes a neutral emotion. 

RHETORICAL ROLE 

decorate The image makes the post more visually attractive or attention-grabbing without meaningfully affecting the reader’s understanding of the text. 

elicit emotion The image encourages an emotional response (e.g., shock, sympathy, outrage, humor, awe) through its content or style. 

control The image directs, holds, or regulates the reader’s attention, or motivates a specific response. 

reiterate The image visually restates what the text says, making the text’s content visible with minimal added interpretation. 

organise The image provides spatial, temporal, or conceptual structure to the text’s content, helping the reader see how elements are arranged or related. 

relate The image explicitly compares, contrasts, or draws a parallel between elements that are described within the text itself. The relationship stays within the scope of the text’s own content. 

Continued on next page Table 10 (continued). 

Label Definition 

condense The image reduces the text’s content to its most essential or critical elements (e.g., a diagram that shows only the spatial trajectory of an accident, omitting weather, motivations, and consequences described in the text). 

explain The image makes the text’s content clearer, more intelligible, or more understandable, while still following the text closely. 

interpret The image provides illustrations of complex ideas in concrete form that go beyond what the text explicitly states. 

develop The image expands on the text by introducing new details, perspectives, comparisons, or contrasts that use elements not present in the text. 

transform The image fundamentally recodes, reorganises, or reinterprets the text’s content into a new form. 

TOPIC 

politics Government, elections, political parties, policies, politicians. 

economics Finance, trade, markets, employment, business. 

science Research, discoveries, environment, climate, space. 

health Medicine, public health, disease, mental health, vaccines. 

entertainment Movies, TV, music, gaming, arts. 

sports Athletic events, teams, players, competitions. 

celebrities Public figures, influencers, pop culture personalities. 

conflict War, military operations, protests, violence, terrorism. 

law Courts, crime, legislation, trials, law enforcement. 

religion Faith, religious institutions, theology, spiritual practices. 

technology Software, hardware, AI, internet, innovation. 

culture Society, traditions, identity, social issues, lifestyle. 

other The topic does not fit any of the categories above. 

MM MECHANISM 

decorative The image is not part of the mechanism to mislead. It provides no additional evidence for the claim and the additional context raises no issues with the image itself. 

fake image The additional context claims that the image is fabricated, AI-generated, staged, or otherwise completely fake. 

,→ AI generated The image is AI generated. 

,→ forgery The image contains a forged document, tweet, or other text-based fake. 

,→ staged The event depicted in the image was staged. 

manipulated image The image is a real image, but the additional context claims it was digitally altered or edited in some manner. 

,→ addition Fake details were added to the image using digital means, such as Photoshop. 

,→ removal Real details were erased or removed from the image, e.g., using cropping. 

,→ replacement Entire entities or elements in the image were replaced with different, fake ones. 

,→ textual Some text in the image was edited or added. 

,→ other edit The image was edited in some other way, e.g., changing the facial expression of a person or adding a filter. 

unreliable source The additional context raises issues regarding the validity, reliability, or origin of the image. Focus only on the image, not the text in the post. 

,→ satire The source is a satirical account or outlet. 

,→ imposter The source is an imposter, impersonating an entity without clearly acknowledging it. 

,→ low credibility source 

The image shows content from a source with a known history of publishing false or unreliable information (e.g., a screenshot of a fringe outlet or conspiracy site). 

,→ other provenance issues 

Other types of provenance issues. 

deny authenticity The post incorrectly denies the authenticity of the image, but the additional context claims that the image is real. 

mismatch The additional context explains that the post makes a factually incorrect claim about the content or context of the image, such as incorrect time, place, person, or event. Use this when the image is misidentified or taken from a different context entirely. 

,→ identity mismatch The post incorrectly names an entity in the image, such as a person, a brand, or an object. 

,→ time mismatch The post incorrectly describes the time/date of when the image was captured. 

,→ place mismatch The post incorrectly describes the location of where the image was captured. 

Continued on next page Table 10 (continued). 

Label Definition 

,→ event mismatch There is a discrepancy regarding the event depicted in the image and the textual description in the post (e.g., a concert is described as a protest). 

,→ other mismatch Any other type of mismatch. 

slanted The additional context claims that the post describes the image in a misleading way, such as misrepresenting its meaning or consequences, or drawing false or exaggerated conclusions from it. Use this when the image is correctly identified but the interpretation or conclusion is misleading. 

,→ exaggeration The text in the post describes the image in an exaggerated way, such as overstating the frequency or severity of an event depicted in the image. 

,→ scientific errors or conspiracies 

The post contains a false scientific claim not grounded in scientific evidence, or promotes a known conspiracy theory. 

,→ misinterpretation of relevance 

The post misinterprets the relevance of the image to some other event, i.e., falsely claiming that it is relevant. 

,→ slanted representation 

The post omits other types of important context. 

texual claim The image contains the claim in a textual form, and the claim is false. The image contains no important visual elements apart from the text. 

other mechanism The additional context describes a different mechanism that is not listed above.